Finalize SpanLimits definition, add option to configure it (#1416)
open-telemetry/opentelemetry-specification: specification/trace/sdk.md

[`InstrumentationLibrary`][otep-83] instance which is stored on the created
`Tracer`.

Configuration (i.e., [Span processors](#span-processor), [IdGenerator](#id-generators),
and [`Sampler`](#sampling)) MUST be managed solely by the `TracerProvider` and it

> MUST provide some way to configure them, at least when creating or initializing it.

Reviewer: This MUST did not include span limits.

> the `TracerProvider` and it MUST provide some way to configure them, at least

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the `TracerProvider` and it MUST provide some way to configure all of them that are implemented in the SDK, at least
```

Otherwise we may accidentally introduce a MUST for the SpanLimits.

Author: Done.

  (for example, the `Span` could be one of the parameters passed to such a function,
  or a getter could be provided).

## Span Limits

Erroneous code can add unintended attributes, events, and links to a span. If
these collections are unbounded, they can quickly exhaust available memory,
resulting in crashes that are difficult to recover from safely.

To protect against such errors, SDK Spans MAY discard attributes, links, and
events that would increase the number of elements of each collection beyond
the recommended limit of 1000 elements.

The SDKs MAY provide a way to change these limits, via a configuration to the
TracerProvider, by allowing users to configure individual limits like the java

> example bellow (the name of the cofiguration class MAY be `SpanLimits`, and the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
example bellow. The name of the cofiguration class MAY be `SpanLimits`, and the
```

Author: Done.

name of the properties SHOULD be `AttributeCountLimit`, `EventCountLimit`,

> `LinkCountLimit` to be consistent with the environment variables; implementation

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`LinkCountLimit` to be consistent with the environment variables. Implementation
```

Author: Done.

> `LinkCountLimit` to be consistent with the environment variables; implementation

Reviewer 2: Maybe remove the actual names used here and simply say that names should be consistent with environment variables.

> `LinkCountLimit` to be consistent with the environment variables; implementation

Author: Everywhere else we define the names in the code, and env follows that not the other way around. See BatchSpanProcessor. So probably just remove the part `to be consistent with the environment variables` and maybe keep the link to the env as suggested.

MAY provide additional configuration such as `AttributePerEventCountLimit`,

> `AttributePerLinkCountLimit`):

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`AttributePerLinkCountLimit`:
```

Author: Done.

```java
public final class SpanLimits {
  SpanLimits(int attributeCountLimit, int linkCountLimit, int eventCountLimit);

  public int getAttributeCountLimit();

  public int getEventCountLimit();

  public int getLinkCountLimit();
}
```

Known properties explanation:

* `AttributeCountLimit` - Maximum allowed span attribute count;
* `EventCountLimit` - Maximum allowed span event count;
* `LinkCountLimit` - Maximum allowed span link count;
* `AttributePerEventCountLimit` - Maximum allowed attribute per span event count;

> * `AttributePerLinkCountLimit` - Maximum allowed attribute per span link count;

Reviewer 2: It is not clear what this section describes.

Author: Consistency with other parts of the document.

|present|false|true|`localParentSampled()`|
|present|false|false|`localParentNotSampled()`|

## Span Limits

Erroneous code can add unintended attributes, events, and links to a span. If
these collections are unbounded, they can quickly exhaust available memory,
resulting in crashes that are difficult to recover from safely.

> To protect against such errors, SDK Spans MAY discard attributes, links, and

Reviewer 3: Since the limits MUST be configurable anyway now, should we also make this a MUST?

Author: We agreed that if the limits are implemented then this is a MUST.

events that would increase the number of elements of each collection beyond
the recommended limit of 1000 elements.

> The SDKs MAY provide a way to change these limits, via a configuration to the

Reviewer 4: L30 says MUST, which makes more sense, given that the default value of 1000 is completely arbitrary (and imho completely unreasonable in the general case - a span with 1000 attributes / events?)

Author: Good call, I think the default is unreasonable.

Author: Maybe `128`, but I will do a separate PR.

> The SDKs MUST provide a way to change these limits, via a configuration to the

Reviewer 3: Please add an entry to the spec compliance matrix for the new MUST requirements.

Author: Done.

> TracerProvider, by allowing users to configure individual limits like the java

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
TracerProvider, by allowing users to configure individual limits like in the Java
```

Author: Done.

> example bellow. The name of the cofiguration class MAY be `SpanLimits`, and the

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
example bellow. The name of the configuration class MAY be `SpanLimits`, and the
```

Author: Done.

name of the properties SHOULD be `AttributeCountLimit`, `EventCountLimit`,

> `LinkCountLimit`. Implementation MAY provide additional configuration such as
> `AttributePerEventCountLimit`, `AttributePerLinkCountLimit`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
and `LinkCountLimit`. Implementations MAY provide additional configuration such as
`AttributePerEventCountLimit` and `AttributePerLinkCountLimit`.
```

Author: done.

> example bellow. The name of the cofiguration class MAY be `SpanLimits`, and the
> name of the properties SHOULD be `AttributeCountLimit`, `EventCountLimit`,
> `LinkCountLimit`. Implementation MAY provide additional configuration such as
> `AttributePerEventCountLimit`, `AttributePerLinkCountLimit`.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
example bellow. The name of the configuration options SHOULD be `AttributeCountLimit`, `EventCountLimit`, and `LinkCountLimit`.
The options MAY be bundled in a class, which then SHOULD be called `SpanLimits`.
Implementation MAY provide additional configuration such as
`AttributePerEventCountLimit` and `AttributePerLinkCountLimit`.
```
Alternative to the two comments since I'd make it optional to group them in a class.

Author: Done.

```java
public final class SpanLimits {
  SpanLimits(int attributeCountLimit, int linkCountLimit, int eventCountLimit);

  public int getAttributeCountLimit();

  public int getEventCountLimit();

  public int getLinkCountLimit();
}
```

**Configurable parameters:**

* `AttributeCountLimit` - Maximum allowed span attribute count;
* `EventCountLimit` - Maximum allowed span event count;
* `LinkCountLimit` - Maximum allowed span link count;

> * `AttributePerEventCountLimit` - Maximum allowed attribute per span event count;

Reviewer 5: This generally seems like a safe change but I would double check these two variables. For example, an alternative approach could be to allow the attribute count limit above to apply to all of the span, events, and links. Less knobs for similar safety - without properly evaluating the options I'm uncomfortable if this blocks other approaches or not. If it doesn't, it's fine.

Author: I think usually people would like a limit way large for the span attributes than what they want for the attributes per event. I don't expect users to set the limit of attributes per event to be 1000, more or less around 32.

Reviewer 3: Should we also adapt the default for these two then? Currently it's 1000 for all.

Author: Done.

* `AttributePerLinkCountLimit` - Maximum allowed attribute per span link count;

> If there is a configurable provided, the SDK SHOULD honor the environment variables

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
If there is a configuration provided, the SDK SHOULD honor the environment variables
```

> If there is a configurable provided, the SDK SHOULD honor the environment variables

Reviewer 3: The meaning of "SHOULD honor" is not clear to me. I'd clearly specify if the environment variables overrule the limits set on the TracerProvider in code or the other way round.
Also, "SHOULD honor" sounds like if the environment variables would _only_ be applicable if a configuration was provided in code.

Author: What about removing this sentence completely?

Author: Decided to remove it, since we don't have the same statement in any other place where we offer env options. Consistency wins.

Reviewer 3: I think we should clearly specify if the environment variables overrule the limits set on the TracerProvider in code or the other way round. Ideally we would specify such precedence globally to be consistent but that's out of scope of this PR.

|present|false|true|`localParentSampled()`|
|present|false|false|`localParentNotSampled()`|

## Span Limits

Erroneous code can add unintended attributes, events, and links to a span. If
these collections are unbounded, they can quickly exhaust available memory,
resulting in crashes that are difficult to recover from safely.

To protect against such errors, SDK Spans MAY discard attributes, links, and
events that would increase the number of elements of each collection beyond

> a recommended limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a configured limit.
```

Author: Done.

It the SDK implements the limits above it MUST provide a way to change these
limits, via a configuration to the TracerProvider, by allowing users to
configure individual limits like in the Java example bellow.

The name of the configuration class MAY be `SpanLimits`, and the
name of the properties SHOULD be `AttributeCountLimit`, `EventCountLimit` and
`LinkCountLimit`. Implementations MAY provide additional configuration such as
`AttributePerEventCountLimit` and `AttributePerLinkCountLimit`.

```java
public final class SpanLimits {
  SpanLimits(int attributeCountLimit, int linkCountLimit, int eventCountLimit);

  public int getAttributeCountLimit();

  public int getEventCountLimit();

  public int getLinkCountLimit();
}
```

**Configurable parameters:**

* `AttributeCountLimit` (Default=1000) - Maximum allowed span attribute count;
* `EventCountLimit` (Default=1000) - Maximum allowed span event count;
* `LinkCountLimit` (Default=1000) - Maximum allowed span link count;
* `AttributePerEventCountLimit` (Default=128) - Maximum allowed attribute per span event count;
* `AttributePerLinkCountLimit` (Default=128) - Maximum allowed attribute per span link count;

> If there is a configuration provided, the SDK SHOULD honor the environment variables

Reviewer: This seems counter-intuitive. The env vars SHOULD override programmatic setting of these values?

Author: This sentence is not necessary, anywhere else we don't refer to the env, so I think it is better to just remove it.
